ls
Function: List directory contents.
Example: ls (lists files and directories in the current directory).

cd
Function: Change directory.
Example: cd /path/to/directory (moves to the specified directory).

pwd
Function: Print working directory.
Example: pwd (displays the current directory path).

mkdir
Function: Make directory.
Example: mkdir new_directory (creates a new directory with the specified name).

rm
Function: Remove files or directories.
Example: rm file.txt (deletes the specified file).

rmdir
Function: Remove empty directories.
Example: rmdir empty_directory (removes the specified empty directory).

cp
Function: Copy files or directories.
Example: cp file.txt new_location/ (copies the file to the specified location).

mv
Function: Move or rename files or directories.
Example: mv file.txt new_name.txt (renames the file).

cat
Function: Concatenate and display file content.
Example: cat file.txt (displays the content of the file).

more
Function: Display file content one screen at a time.
Example: more file.txt (displays the content of the file, allowing scrolling).

less
Function: Display file content with backward and forward navigation.
Example: less file.txt (displays the content of the file with navigation options).

head
Function: Display the beginning lines of a file.
Example: head file.txt (displays the first few lines of the file).

tail
Function: Display the ending lines of a file.
Example: tail file.txt (displays the last few lines of the file).

grep
Function: Search for patterns in files.
Example: grep "pattern" file.txt (searches for the specified pattern in the file).

chmod
Function: Change file permissions.
Example: chmod 755 file.txt (sets read, write, and execute permissions for owner, and read and execute permissions for group and others).

chown
Function: Change file owner and group.
Example: chown user:group file.txt (changes the owner and group of the file).

sudo
Function: Execute a command with superuser privileges.
Example: sudo command (runs the command with administrative permissions).

tar
Function: Archive files and directories.
Example: tar -czvf archive.tar.gz directory/ (creates a compressed tar archive of the specified directory).

wget
Function: Download files from the internet.
Example: wget https://example.com/file.txt (downloads the file from the specified URL).

ps
Function: Display information about running processes.
Example: ps aux (displays detailed information about all running processes).