ifconfig
Function: Display network interface configuration.
Example: ifconfig (shows information about all network interfaces).

ip
Function: Display or manipulate routing, devices, policy routing, and tunnels.
Example: ip addr show (shows IP addresses of all network interfaces).

route
Function: Display or manipulate the IP routing table.
Example: route -n (displays the routing table in numeric format).

ping
Function: Send ICMP ECHO_REQUEST packets to a network host.
Example: ping google.com (checks connectivity to google.com).

traceroute
Function: Trace the route taken by packets to a network host.
Example: traceroute google.com (displays the route taken by packets to reach google.com).

netstat
Function: Display network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, and multicast memberships.
Example: netstat -tuln (shows listening TCP and UDP ports).

ss
Function: Display socket statistics.
Example: ss -t (shows TCP socket statistics).

hostname
Function: Display or set the system's hostname.
Example: hostname (displays the current hostname).

dig
Function: DNS lookup utility.
Example: dig google.com (performs a DNS lookup for google.com).

nslookup
Function: Query DNS servers to obtain domain name or IP address mapping.
Example: nslookup google.com (performs a DNS lookup for google.com).

nmap
Function: Network exploration and security auditing tool.
Example: nmap -Pn target_ip (performs a port scan on the target IP).

ssh
Function: Secure Shell client.
Example: ssh user@hostname (connects to a remote host via SSH).

scp
Function: Securely copy files between hosts.
Example: scp file.txt user@hostname:/remote/path/ (copies file.txt to a remote host).

curl
Function: Transfer data from or to a server.
Example: curl https://example.com (downloads content from the specified URL).

wget
Function: Download files from the internet.
Example: wget https://example.com/file.txt (downloads the file from the specified URL).

iptables
Function: Firewall administration tool.
Example: iptables -L (displays firewall rules).

tcpdump
Function: Network packet analyzer.
Example: tcpdump -i eth0 (captures and displays network packets on interface eth0).

hostnamectl
Function: Control system hostname and related settings.
Example: hostnamectl set-hostname new_hostname (sets the system hostname to "new_hostname").